# employee-attrition

## Summary
If you’re wondering why do employees tend to leave organizations, you’ll mostly get answers related to “low paycheck”, but is that really the case? By using a dataset created by IBM data scientists, you’ll understand the real reasons of why employees leave the org! The data consists of nearly 1,500 current and former employees with information related to their monthly income, work life balance, experience, job role etc., with about 18% of the dataset covering attrition cases, of which half is coming from employees in R&D followed by sales.
Based on the visualizations, we noticed that employees early in their career tend to leave the company after less than 4 years. Employees with experience ≤4 years have a 32% attrition rate compared to people with more experience. By analyzing the age factor we’ve also found that younger aged employees are more likely to leave the organization than older people, ages between 25 & 35 with 47% attrition rate, indicates that older people choose to stay. The tree-based classification model can predict about 16% of all attrition cases and correctly identify 75% of all predicted attrition cases. While the model can only predict less than a fifth of attrition cases, it is still fairly precise on predicting attrition. The most important features for the model’s prediction were monthly income, stock options, age, and working overtime. Employees that the model predicted to likely leave the company were people who worked overtime, received less monthly income and stock options, younger in age, and are less satisfied with their job.
HR should focus more on assisting employees that are early in their career or have less than 3 years of experience at the company, and support personal and career development to ensure job satisfaction. This can be achieved by providing opportunities related to mentorships, networking, and continuous learning. Additionally, employees need to be paid fairly to keep attrition low. HR should benchmark all salaries with other companies in the industry to ensure each employee is compensated equally and fairly. Focus on supporting employees’ career growth and offering competitive pay will help the attrition rate low.
